We're going to continue working with the night mode block.
Currently the only way to turn on night mode is through the toolbar.
That's perfectly fine but you may want to provide this option in the sidebar determining where an option
is placed is a user experience design decision.
Therefore that's beyond the scope of the course.
It's a case by case thing.
And so all leave it up to you where you think it should be placed.
For now let's just say that we wanted this option to be present in the sidebar.
It's completely possible and allowed to have the same option available in multiple locations to get
started.
We're going to need to tell WordPress.
We'd like to add in some content to the sidebar when the block is selected.
We already know how to do this with the inspector controls component.
Let's load that in open the index dot J.S. file for the night mode block at the top d structure the
inspector controls component from the WP dot editor object
we're also going to need some generic components from the WP components object D structure the panel
body panel row and form toggle components I'm introducing a new component here called form toggle.
This is a custom form field that will allow the user to toggle a value.
You'll see how it works soon enough.
The next step would be to create the attribute.
However it doesn't make sense to have two values for a night mode.
We'll just use the same attribute for the button.
Let's just head on over to the edit function since we'll be using the inspector controls component.
Then we'll need to return array instead of the block
right above the block.
I'm going to use the inspector controls panel body and panel row components.
A lot of this should be familiar to you.
I'm setting the title to night mode and making it translatable.
We're going to use the panel row component as the form toggle component.
We're about to use requires the formatting provided by this component inside the panel row component.
Add the form toggle component first let's assign the I.D. attribute I'm going to set this to you to
meet Nash recipe.
Dash 9 dash mode dash toggle then we'll need to set the checked attribute.
This needs to be either true or false.
We'll set this to the night mode actual view.
Next we'll need to set the on change attribute.
What will happen if the user clicks on this field will want to update the night mode attribute.
This will be the exact same code we use for the button in the toolbar.
Here's the problem though we're rewriting the logic in two different places.
It would be better to make this into a reusable function above the return statement.
Create a constant named toggle night mode cut and paste the function from the on click event
now that we have a reusable function.
Let's set the on change and on click events to the toggle night mode function before we declare this
complete the form toggle component will not generate a label so we'll need to do that ourselves right
above the component.
Add the label tag the text inside should be set to night mode that will also be translate ready.
I'm also going to set the four attribute however for is a reserved keyword in JavaScript so we'll need
to use the HCM L for attribute instead.
This is one of those react quirks.
The value for this should be the idea of the input field.
In this case it would be Udemy dash recipe dash nine dash mode dash toggle we're finished.
Save your changes in C D into the blocks directory run the NPM run Dev command.
You shouldn't receive any error so far.
Go ahead and try creating a new recipe post.
You should be able to add that night mode block without a problem with the blocks selected.
You should see the button appear in the toolbar and the form toggle field in the sidebar.
This is fantastic.
If you were to click on the toggle then you'll see that Knight mode is enabled the button will also
be turned on you can click these in any or you want.
Everything should stay in sync.
WordPress will be able to manage everything for you.
All you have to do is take the time to tie everything up.
Once again it's up to you to decide where these options should be placed.
My advice would be to not clutter the toolbar you want everything to be intuitive as possible.
All right.
That does it for now.
In the next couple of lectures I'll introduce you to some of the other components for creating input
fields.